---
title:  "Social Support Helps Resist Temptation"
header:
categories:
  - Social Support
tags:
  - Recommendations
author: Stefanie F
---

Temptation defines the intensive urge to engage in a specific behavior in difficult situations. Most commonly, temptation stems from negative affect or emotional distress, positive social situations, and craving.  

![Support group embracing a member] (/assets/images/ss01.png)
<sub><sup>Credit to <a href="https://media.recovery.org/wp-content/uploads/recovery-shutterstock289042613-group_acceptance-cta.jpg
">Shutterstock</sub></sup>

In a social support group, people with similar aspirations and problems support each other to resist temptation and avoid relapse after termination of bad habits, such as alcoholism, drug abuse, or other.

![2 screenshots of an app to find therapists and share feelings with other app users] (/assets/images/ss02.png)
<sub><sup>Credit to <a href="http://www.businessofapps.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/iexhale.png ">Businessofapps.com</sub></sup>

The application iExhale allows users to connect to therapists, or share their feelings with others. It gives them a platform to discuss their own problems, or the problems their loved ones are experiencing, to find comfort and help.

## The theory
Helping relationships combine caring, trust, openness, and acceptance, as well as support for healthy behavior change. Rapport building, therapeutic alliances, counselor calls, and buddy systems can be sources of social support.

The classic pattern in smoking cessation clinics is rapid relapse beginning as soon as the treatment is terminated. Some of this rapid relapse could well be due to the sudden loss of social support or social control provided by the counselors and other participants in the clinic.
