---
title:  "Cultivate a positive attitude"
header:
categories:
  - Theory of Planned Behavior
tags:
  - Recommendations
author: Elise L
---

The Theory of Planned Behavior tells us that someone’s attitude toward a behavior will influence whether or not they form an intention toward some action. Positive attitudes are more likely to result in behavior change than negative attitudes. Designers should cultivate a positive attitude in order to change behavior.

![Two people are in a bus. One of them stares at a dark scenery on the left, and the other stares at the sun and a beautiful landscape on the right.] (/assets/images/tpb03.png)
<sub><sup>Credit to <a href="https://exploregram.com/they-say-a-picture-is-worth-a-1000-words-and-this-one/">Exploregram</sub></sup>

Positive attitudes and beliefs toward something are predictive of behavior change. If users have a negative attitude toward a behavior change, the change won’t be successful. If positive beliefs and attitudes are cultivated about the world we live in, anything is possible.

![A screenshot of Fitbit's social feed] (/assets/images/tpb04.png)
<sub><sup>Credit to <a href="https://www.fitbit.com/home">Fitbit</sub></sup>

Fitbit rewards users with trophies and allows them to be shared with the Fitbit community. Fitbit fosters positive attitudes within the community by allowing others to “Cheer” on other members.

In a study of healthy eating habits, people with positive attitudes toward healthy eating were more likely to have a healthy diet.

Compared to people with neutral negative attitudes toward healthy eating, people with positive attitudes ate about 2 more servings of fruits and vegetables every day (Aggarwal 2014).
