---
title:  "Encourage Sharing Goals"
header:
categories:
  - Goal-setting
tags:
  - Recommendations
author: Elise
---

Encouraging someone to make a public commitment toward a goal encourages success in reaching the goal. This is because it makes actions a matter of personal and social integrity.  

![Woman holding a microphone speaking in front of a crowd] (/assets/images/gs05.png)
<sub><sup>Credit to <a href="https://images.google.com/">Google images</a></sub></sup>

When you speak to an audience, you are accountable for the things that you say. In order to maintain integrity, you should follow through on promises and intentions in a meaningful way. We can simulate this experience through social media technology by enabling people to share their goals and intentions toward behavior change publicly.

![Girl jumping] (/assets/images/gs06.png)
<sub><sup>Credit to  <a href="https://images.google.com/">Google images</a></sub></sup>

HabitShare allows you to share goals and progress toward your goals with your friends.

The app also makes it easy for friends to message you with words of encouragement and praise.

A study by Hollenbeck, Williams & Klein [1], it was found that students who set GPA goals that were public to their peers were significantly more committed to achieve the goals over time than students who had private GPA goals.

It is not advised to use this design strategy when sensitive information is involved. People might be wary of sharing certain types of information, and it’s important to keep such information confidential.

[1] Hollenbeck, J., Williams, C., & Klein, H. (1989). An empirical examination  of  the  antecedents  of  commitment  to  difficult  goals. Journal  ofApplied Psychology, 74,18–23.
